# chapter 6

## 练习5
### 5.1
#### Q 
Illustrate the operation of HEAP-EXTRACT-MAX on the heap A = [15, 13, 9, 5, 12, 8, 7, 4, 0, 6, 2, 1].

#### A
略
### 5.2
#### Q 
Illustrate the operation of MAX-HEAP-INSERT(A, 10) on the heap A = [15, 13, 9, 5, 12, 8, 7, 4, 0, 6, 2, 1]. Use the heap of Figure 6.5 as a model for the HEAP-INCREASE-KEY call.
#### A
略
### 5.3
#### Q 
Write pseudocode for the procedures HEAP-MINIMUM, HEAP-EXTRACT-MIN, HEAP- DECREASE-KEY, and MIN-HEAP-INSERT that implement a min-priority queue with a min-heap.
#### A
c++实现 [code](https://github.com/swananan/Wu-Algorithm/blob/master/Data_Structures_and_Algorithms/Queue/priorityqueue.h)  
### 5.4
#### Q 
Why do we bother setting the key of the inserted node to -∞ in line 2 of MAX-HEAP- INSERT when the next thing we do is increase its key to the desired value?
#### A
是为了维持最大堆，我个人觉得无所谓，不设置成负无穷，直接调用HEAP-INCREASE-KEY(A,A.heapsize,key) 我觉得不影响，因为该函数也会根据堆末尾被设为权值key之后，对堆进行调整，如果key值大，就向上浮动，来维持最大堆 
### 5.5
#### Q
Argue the correctness of HEAP-INCREASE-KEY using the following loop invariant:

• At the start of each iteration of the while loop of lines 4-6, the array A[1...heap- size[A]] satisfies the max-heap property, except that there may be one violation: A[i] may be larger than A[PARENT(i)].
#### A
显而易见

### 5.6
#### Q
Each exchange operation on line 5 of HEAP-INCREASE-KEY typically requires three asignments. Show how to use the idea of the inner loop of INSERTION-SORT to reduce the three assignments down to just one assignment.
#### A
```
HEAP-INCREASE-KEY(A, i, key):
    if key < A[i]
        error "New key is smaller than current key"
    A[i] = key
    while i > 1 and A[PARENT(i)] < key
        A[i] = A[PARENT(i)]
        i = PARENT(i)
    A[i] = key
```
### 5.7
#### Q
Show how to implement a first-in, first-out queue with a priority queue. Show how to implement a stack with a priority queue. (Queues and stacks are defined in Section 10.1.)
#### A
优先队列分别实现FIFO队列和栈，那么按进入的顺序来设定权值，以达到效果
### 5.8
#### Q
The operation HEAP-DELETE(A, i) deletes the item in node i from heap A. Give an implementation of HEAP-DELETE that runs in O(lg n) time for an n-element max-heap.
#### A
```
HEAP-DELETE(A,i)
swap A[i] and A[A.heapsize]
A.heapsize--
Max-HEAPIFY(A,i)
```
### 5.8
#### Q
Give an O(n lg k)-time algorithm to merge k sorted lists into one sorted list, where n is the total number of elements in all the input lists. (Hint: Use a min-heap for k-way merging.)
#### A
leetcode 第23题 [code](https://github.com/swananan/Wu-Algorithm/blob/master/Leetcode/023_MergekSortedLists.cc)