# chapter 13

## 练习1
### 1.1
#### Q 
In the style of Figure 13.1(a), draw the complete binary search tree of height 3 on the keys {1, 2, ..., 15}. Add the NIL leaves and color the nodes in three different ways such that the black- heights of the resulting red-black trees are 2, 3, and 4.

#### A

          8
         /  \
        4    12
       / \  /  \
      2   6 10  14
     1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15
     
满足二叉搜索树和完全二叉树条件，然后填色，可以全部填黑色。
### 1.2
#### Q 
Draw the red-black tree that results after TREE-INSERT is called on the tree in Figure 13.1 with key 36. If the inserted node is colored red, is the resulting tree a red-black tree? What if it is colored black?
#### A
不管填黑色还是填红色，都不满足红黑性质
### 1.3
#### Q 
Let us define a relaxed red-black tree as a binary search tree that satisfies red- black properties 1, 3, 4, and 5. In other words, the root may be either red or black. Consider a relaxed red-black tree T whose root is red. If we color the root of T black but make no other changes to T, is the resulting tree a red-black tree?
#### A
还是红黑树。满足所有红黑性质
### 1.4
#### Q 
Suppose that we "absorb" every red node in a red-black tree into its black parent, so that the children of the red node become children of the black parent. (Ignore what happens to the keys.) What are the possible degrees of a black node after all its red children are absorbed? What can you say about the depths of the leaves of the resulting tree?
#### A
这样的话，我们会得到一颗2.3.4树，叶子节点具有相同的高度，高度不会高过log2(n)


### 1.5
#### Q 

Show that the longest simple path from a node x in a red-black tree to a descendant leaf has length at most twice that of the shortest simple path from node x to a descendant leaf.
#### A
所有路径上黑色节点一样多，且路径上红色节点不会多于黑色节点，故最多就是2倍了。
### 1.6
#### Q
What is the largest possible number of internal nodes in a red-black tree with black-height k? What is the smallest possible number?
#### A
最多的情况，红黑依次交替，2^2k -1  
最少的情况，只有黑色，2^k -1

### 1.7
#### Q
Describe a red-black tree on n keys that realizes the largest possible ratio of red internal nodes to black internal nodes. What is this ratio? What tree has the smallest possible ratio, and what is the ratio?

#### A
