# chapter 10

## 练习1
### 1.1
#### Q 
Using Figure 10.1 as a model, illustrate the result of each operation in the sequence PUSH(S, 4), PUSH(S, 1), PUSH(S, 3), POP(S), PUSH(S, 8), and POP(S) on an initially empty stack S stored in array S[1...6].

#### A
略
### 1.2
#### Q 
Explain how to implement two stacks in one array A[1...n] in such a way that neither stack overflows unless the total number of elements in both stacks together is n. The PUSH and POP operations should run in O(1) time.
#### A
一头一尾分别维护两个栈，分别从头尾插入，并且维护结尾指针，防止两个栈元素个数之和大于n溢出。
### 1.3
#### Q 
Using Figure 10.2 as a model, illustrate the result of each operation in the sequence ENQUEUE(Q, 4), ENQUEUE(Q, 1), ENQUEUE(Q, 3), DEQUEUE(Q), ENQUEUE(Q, 8), and DEQUEUE(Q) on an initially empty queue Q stored in array Q[1...6].
#### A
略
### 1.4
#### Q 
Rewrite ENQUEUE and DEQUEUE to detect underflow and overflow of a queue.

#### A
略
### 1.5
#### Q 
Whereas a stack allows insertion and deletion of elements at only one end, and a queue allows insertion at one end and deletion at the other end, a deque (double-ended queue) allows insertion and deletion at both ends. Write four O(1)-time procedures to insert elements into and delete elements from both ends of a deque constructed from an array.
#### A
[code](https://github.com/swananan/Wu-Algorithm/blob/master/Data_Structures_and_Algorithms/Queue/deque.h)

### 1.6
#### Q 
Show how to implement a queue using two stacks. Analyze the running time of the queue operations.
#### A

leetcode原题[code](https://github.com/swananan/Wu-Algorithm/blob/master/Leetcode/232_ImplementQueueusingStacks.cc)

### 1.7
#### Q 
Show how to implement a stack using two queues. Analyze the running time of the stack operations.
#### A
leetcode原题[code](https://github.com/swananan/Wu-Algorithm/blob/master/Leetcode/225_ImplementStackusingQueues.cc)
