#chapter5

## 练习3
## 主要说了随机排列一个数组的问题
### 3.1
####Q  
Professor Marceau objects to the loop invariant used in the proof of Lemma 5.5. He questions whether it is true prior to the first iteration. His reasoning is that one could just as easily declare that an empty subarray contains no 0-permutations. Therefore, the probability that an empty subarray contains a 0-permutation should be 0, thus invalidating the loop invariant prior to the first iteration. Rewrite the procedure RANDOMIZE-IN-PLACE so that its associated loop invariant applies to a nonempty subarray prior to the first iteration, and modify the proof of Lemma 5.5 for your procedure.  
####A  
在RANDOMIZE-IN-PLACE(A)算法中开头加上如果A数组的长度为0则返回  
### 3.2
####Q  
Professor Kelp decides to write a procedure that will produce at random any permutation besides the identity permutation. He proposes the following procedure:  

```
PERMUTE-WITHOUT-IDENTITY(A)
n ← length[A]
for i ← 1 to n  
   do swap A[i] ↔ A[RANDOM(i + 1, n)]
```
Does this code do what Professor Kelp intends? 
####A  

没有实现，不会产生n！的全排列，而是（n-1）！种排列  

### 3.3
####Q  
Suppose that instead of swapping element A[i] with a random element from the subarray A[i .. n], we swapped it with a random element from anywhere in the array: ￼  

```
PERMUTE-WITH-ALL(A)
n ← length[A]
for i ← 1 to n
   do swap A[i] ↔ A[RANDOM(1, n)]
```
Does this code produce a uniform random permutation? Why or why not?
####A
这样做的话，会有n^n 种情况，而不是n！种情况，并不符合均匀全排列  
### 3.4
####Q   
Professor Armstrong suggests the following procedure for generating a uniform random permutation:

```
PERMUTE-BY-CYCLIC(A)
 n ← length[A]
 offset ← RANDOM(1, n)
 for i <- i to n
    do dest <- i + offset
       if dest > n
           then dest <- dest-n
       B[dest] -< A[i]
 return B
```
Show that each element A[i] has a 1/n probability of winding up in any particular position in B. Then show that Professor Armstrong is mistaken by showing that the resulting permutation is not uniformly random.

####A
offset只随机了一次，然后按照offset平移数组  
最后只有可能生成n种排列，不符合  
### 3.5
####Q  
Prove that in the array P in procedure PERMUTE-BY-SORTING, the probability that all elements are unique is at least 1 - 1/n.
####A
元素是由RANDOM(1,n^3 )产生的，一共产生n个  
懒得写推导公式了  
### 3.6
####Q 
Explain how to implement the algorithm PERMUTE-BY-SORTING to handle the case in which two or more priorities are identical. That is, your algorithm should produce a uniform random permutation, even if two or more priorities are identical.
####A
